KARABO NGOEPEAFRICAN National Congress President Jacob Zuma says the organisation is hard at work addressing the internal challenges currently facing it.Zuma was speaking during a gala dinner hosted by the Progressive Business Forum on Thursday night ahead of the party s policy conference at Nasrec, Johannesburg. We are determined to attend to these. We have set aside two days to focus on organisational renewal. South Africa needs a strong, united and focused ANC, and we have a duty to ensure that we resolve all challenges that hinder the ANC from fully fulfilling its role as the leader of society, he said. Let us continue working together putting our country first. Any differences that we may have, must not impact on the need to put our country and its people first. UNITED FRONT: President Jacob Zuma and other members of the ANC top six officials. Photo: Denvor de Wee/Visual Buzz SA.Zuma added that despite the challenges faced by the ANC, the party was still the only vehicle that could bring a better life for the people of South Africa. Allow me to state, with all humility, that despite the challenges within the organization currently, the ANC remains the only formation in society capable of mobilizing all South Africans to realize the vision of a united, non-racial, non-sexist, democratic and prosperous South Africa,&#8221; the president said.&#8220;We want the ANC to become the political home for all South Africans who want a truly united, non-racial, non-sexist and prosperous society. We are building an ANC that will be the political home of all who want to see better education, health care, housing, infrastructure, an end to crime and corruption, and the quest for a better Africa and a more equal world order. Zuma called on the business sector to work with the party and government to continue with mutually beneficial partnerships to stimulate growth in the economy in spite of the current challenges.He said such partnerships between business and the ANC as well as its government were good for the country and its people. We are currently facing a technical recession. Our country has been downgraded to sub-investment status. This may sound scary and it should be. However, we also know that when we unite and face such challenges as a people, we tend to overcome. That is why we shall work together to face the challenge of slow or no growth, the challenge of jobless growth, high unemployment and frustrated young people, crime and corruption and various other problems, he said.