MASOKA DUBETHE ANC in Limpopo has written a letter asking Cosatu to apologise for booing the ruling party s deputy secretary general Jessie Duarte, said Limpopo Cosatu Chairperson Essop Mokgonyana.Speaking at teacher union Sadtu s provincial congress in Polokwane at the weekend, Mokgonyana said the labour federation would neither apologise nor even respond to the ANC s letter.Last month, African Times reported that Cosatu members had jeered, booed and heckled Duarte when she tried to address the federation s May Day Rally at the Peter Mokaba Stadium in Polokwane. I can confirm that the ruling party sent us a letter asking us to apologise. We did not respond to the letter, simply because it is not worth responding. I can assure you that we are not going to apologise. We also received a message from the Umkhonto We Sizwe Military Veterans also telling us that they are not happy about our conduct of booing some of the ANC members, said Mokgonyana.UNREPENTANT: Limpopo Cosatu Chairperson Essop Mokgonyana. Photo: Lebogang Makwela/ Visual Buzz SA.He also called on Limpopo ANC chairperson Premier Chupu Stan Mathabatha to openly join Cosatu s campaign to install Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa as ANC leader.This comes as the race to succeed President Jacob Zuma as ANC leader intensifies between Ramaphosa and former African Union chairperson Nkosazana Dlamini- Zuma.The two ANC national executive committee (NEC) members are currently criss-crossing the country to lobby for votes ahead of the party s elective conference in December.Apart from Cosatu and the SACP, Ramaphosa is believed to enjoy the support of ANC provinces such as Gauteng, Northern Cape and the Western Cape.The labour federation has followed up on its resolution by banning Zuma from speaking at its gatherings.Dlamini-Zuma is thought to be enjoying support in her home province of KwaZulu-Natal, Free State and Mpumalanga among others.The ANC Youth League, the ANC Women s League and the Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) have also thrown their weight behind her. Comrades, we have composed a strong team to go and lobby the ANC chairperson in the province, Chupu Stan Mathabatha to publicly join the CR 17 (Cyril Ramaphosa 2017) campaign. I can see that he is gradually agreeing to join us. We are happy to announce that Cosatu in Limpopo belongs to Ramaphosa. We supported Jacob Zuma when he was a victim in 2007, but now we no longer want him, he must go, said Mokgonyana.&nbsp;BOOED: ANC deputy secretary general Jessie Duarte. Photo: Lebogang Makwela/ Visual Buzz SA.Mathabatha appeared to warm up to Cosatu s call.Before delivering his speech at the same event, he shouted Ramaphosa s name more than four times.He pleaded with the tripartite alliance to support the visibly troubled ANC to overcome its problems. This is not the first time the ANC is faced with problems. In the past, the party had faced with serious problems than the one we are facing now. Let me tell you, the party managed to survive and overcome those problems. If we all stand together, and face the problems, they too shall pass, said Mathabatha. On behalf of deputy president of the ANC, Cyril Ramaphosa, I would like to apologise because he failed to come and address you as promised. He said I should tell you that he is willing to come and address you anytime when you want him to do so. 