KARABO NGOEPEECONOMIC Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader Julius Malema says he is not hungry for power or desperate to be the president of South Africa. I am not desperate to be the President of SA. This party is growing bit by bit. We are building a trusted formation, a formation that all black people can be proud to associate with, he said.Malema was speaking at the Boipatong Stadium during the party s Youth Day celebrations. He told the thousands gathered there that the decisions taken by the party following last year s local government elections should be evidence enough. If I was desperate for power, I was going to be the mayor of Johannesburg today. I was going to bargain with DA. I would have told them to take Tshwane and I lead Johannesburg, he said.SPIRITED: EFF leader Julius Malema addresses party supporters at the June 16 rally in Boitapatong. Photo: Denvor de Wee/Visual Buzz SA.The EFF voted with the DA following the elections to hand them control of Tshwane, Johannesburg and Mogale City Municipalities.Their association with the DA pushed the ANC out of power and relegated it to opposition benches.They were called King Makers following the elections. Malema on Friday agreed with the tag, saying they were in control of South African politics. Whether you love us or not it is not our problem. You will watch us. We are in charge of South African politics, he said.Malema also used the occasion to call on black people to stop hating each other. He said blacks need to support one another in everything they do, including business but he warned against providing sloppy services in the process.He said the support must also transcend into the entertainment industry. Black people must unite, you must love each other. When you provide services to each other, provide quality. We must support each other. People are more than ready to work for whites but don&#8217;t want to work with each other. T-bo Touch opened his own radio station (Touch HD) but you did not download it yet you have twitter. Support Black people. You have white people&#8217;s CDs from America but you don&#8217;t have Casper Nyovest&#8217;s new album Thuto, he said.ZUMA MUST GO: EFF supporters demands President Jacob Zuma&#8217;s head at their June 16 rally in Boipatong. Photo: Denvor de Wee/Visual Buzz SA.Malema continued to say blacks should pride themselves with the success of other blacks instead of trying to bring them down. When a black child becomes successful, don&#8217;t bewitch them. They&#8217;re also your child, he said.Malema also lambasted parents for not doing enough to tackle the issue of corruption in the country.He said today s parents have become compliant with the rampant corruption that is ravaging the country just like the 1976 elders were with the apartheid government.Despite that, Malema urged the youth not to do the same but to rather fight for what is right. Our parents are folding their arms just like the 1976 parents. When we talk they say we are being disrespectful. If the 1976 youth had listened to their parents we wouldn t be here today. Once you feel aggrieved stand-up and take a stand as inspired by the 1976 youth said Malema.He said people keep talking about corruption and wanting to see the end of it but keep voting for the same people. There is a lot of money in government. Municipalities have money but instead of delivering services they are looting it just like their father. They are rotten to the core. The power is in your hands let us not be comfortable with corruption. When we say to people Zuma took our money to Dubai they do not want to listen Malema said.