THOLAKELE MNGANGAIT S still unknown if midfield general Teko Modise s impending departure from Mamelodi Sundowns will also signal the end of his playing career.But coach Pitso Mosimane knows that the General has achieved the dream of many footballers, having won trophies and represented his country at the highest level.Mosimane has paid tribute to Teko Modise amid rumors that the midfield general will leave the club at the end of the season.Modise s contract with the Absa Premiership champions expires at the conclusion of the current campaign and he is unlikely to be offered a new one as the club look to bring in fresh legs in their attempt to retain their continental crown.Having won league titles, the Nedbank Cup and the CAF Champions League with the club, Mosimane had nothing but praise for a player who he first signed during their SuperSport United days.PLOTTING: Sundowns Coach Pitso Mosimane and midfielder Teko Modise. He came to PSL when I was at SuperSport United and look at what we have achieved. From Bafana to here also. For me it has been a good relationship and I ve given him game time also especially in the last two to three games but you ve got to also manage the legs. He is not young, so three games in a row becomes a little bit of a problem, says Mosimane.Since making his debut for Ria Stars in 2001, Modise has made 343 club appearances for teams such as Supersport United and Orlando Pirates. He has represented Bafana Bafana on 66 occasions, scoring 10 goals along the way.Mosimane could not hide praises for him: We have to respect Teko, he has done exceptionally well at Sundowns. He has contributed so much. Sundowns has been good for Teko. I m happy that if he retires, he can say I have won international tournaments. I m happy he can do that. A prolific player like Teko, I think he has ticked all the boxes. Plays in the World Cup with the National Team, plays in the Cup of Nations with the National Team.&#8221;He added: He played the world cup with a club. He played Champions League and he won that. Confederations Cup I mean what else is he missing? He has ticked all the boxes. If a guy like that retires he can look back and say PSL footballer of the year twice, all of those things.&#8221;