PIET RAMPEDITRANSPORT Minister Joe Maswanganyi s elevation has been described as a fitting honour for a man who has served the ANC with dedication for more than three decades.For fellow ANC leaders and Maswanganyi s prot g s, the affirmation of the former ANC Youth League (ANCYL) deputy president, who recently graduated with his second Master s Degree, was a moment of pride for them and Limpopo as a whole.Maswanganyi has been an ANC MPL since 1994 and was appointed MEC twice for the departments of sports and local government and housing. We are proud about his deployment and it has been a good thing, said former Limpopo Premier Cassel Mathale.OVER THE MOON: Limpopo Health MEC Dr Phophi Ramathuba and Polokwane Mayor Thembi Nkadimeng. PICTURE: LEBOGANG MAKWELA/VISUAL BUZZ SA.Polokwane Mayor Thembi Nkadimeng, who was politically groomed by Maswanganyi in the ANCYL, said: It means a huge responsibility to the young people of yesteryear to make sure that today s ANC still remains relevant and that our people receive the services that they are expecting, she said.Limpopo Health MEC Dr Phophi Ramathuba concurred: To me, it says the ANC this time has noted one of its own whose credentials you can never question, who you know is up to the task. David Che Selane, provincial ANCYL secretary, said Maswanganyi is an inspiration to young people across the province. He led the youth league with diligence. For him to be minister from a rural village is an inspiration to most of us that even in future, young people will produce this kind of a leader if they dedicate themselves to education and the ANC, Selane said.The convener of the ANC PEC in Vhembe, MPL Rosina Mogotlane, described Maswanganyi as a giant, very humble with a big heart . He always puts his energy at the disposal of the ANC. Very down to earth, very approachable. He is not a position monger, that s why President Jacob Zuma honoured him, Mogotlane said.ANC Limpopo deputy secretary and COGHTA MEC Makoma Makhurupetje said the party has already formally congratulated Maswanganyi because we know you . You know the ANC because you are the son of the ANC. You have led the ANCYL to the level of the national executive committee. Thereafter you became the deputy president of the ANCYL,&#8221; she added.