VISUAL BUZZ SASouth African Communist Party (SACP) deputy general secretary Jeremy Cronin has warned the public against being misled by those who ask them to support the Gupta family in its battle against White Monopoly Capital.He says his party will fight against all monopoly capital regardless of race.The Gupta brothers Atul and Ajay are close to President Jacob Zuma.Cronin was addressing about 1 000 people who marched on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) in Sandton as part of Cosatu Gauteng s workers day celebrations.WORKER DEMANDS: ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe and SACP deputy general secretary Jeremy Cronin lead a Gauteng Cosatu march on the JSE in Johannesburg. Unless we change the whole system, nothing changes except the colour of those who exploit and oppress the majority of South Africans, Cronin said. And that is why we must not be misled by those who say we must side with the Guptas against White Monopoly Capital. The party doesn t talk about White Monopoly Capital. We talk about monopoly capital; whether it s black, brown, yellow, any colour, monopoly capital is monopoly capital. ANC secretary general Gwede Mantashe, who also addressed the march, lashed out at infighting within the alliance, saying the warring factions undermine the gains achieved by workers since the new dispensation.He said the newly launched South African Federation of Trade Unions (SAFTU), led by former Cosatu general secretary Zwelinzima vavi, is a threat to Cosatu. Factions within our party are undermining gains of the workers which have been achieved in the past years. We have been experiencing a culture of undermining one another and this is leading to the self-destruction of our alliance, said Mantashe. We need a serious shift if we are to survive this terrible situation we are finding ourselves in. Factions within the ANC led alliance have been at each other s throats over leadership succession, President Jacob Zuma s decision to fire former Finance Minister Pravin Gordhan and allegations of state capture, among others. They differed publicly and often called each other names.Mantashe himself, Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa and ANC treasurer general Zweli Mkhize broke ranks and publicly distanced themselves from President Zuma s cabinet reshuffle.They later made a U-turn after the party s extended National Working Committee reportedly rebuked them for airing the party s dirty laundry in public.Mantashe further warned that divisions within their alliance were giving life to new formations like SAFTU, of which the National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) is part.Numsa general secretary Irvin Jim and Vavi co-founded the new federation after they were fired or forced out of Cosatu for publicly opposing its decision to support President Jacob Zuma. Divisions are giving birth to new worker movements. Do not undermine them as they are there to destroy and reverse all our efforts. Let us regroup and go out in numbers as workers and make sure masses gain their confidence in us, he said.